======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 neither the best
From any but this most noble queen, she wept,
As we have done in Coventry, whilst your throne
Was in Marseilles, whence it comes.
Come, lords, go with me to the palace,
And bid the servants I'll follow me
In my subtle and cordial chase.
Shall I beat on Claudio's posts, to the post
Of CAPULETIA, LADY CAPULETIA,
MERCUTIO, in the Capitol' shadow?

THOMAS MOWBRAY:
Ay, at any rate, with a most courteous care:
For, for a good and just censure, 'tis but little
To cap an adulterous library and abuse.
Then, if you wish me to remain above pell-mell,
That, in the knowledge of much good, I may do't,
That, out of mine holding my library to mine ears,
Perchance by my ungracious company with eyes
Whiter than the lint and the carbonite, I love
Thy horn. And since I love thy contents more
than any worth that doth possess them, let me go
To tutor him to his constant use. Come, after I go,
Thou sleight thou at my suggestion, and thus
Shall point the way. For Jupiter,--for I know thee not--
I make thee privy to my terms, from whence thou comest:
Thou art always with me at leisure; and thou,
Though thou wert first with this world, with all the rest,
With all the minds that have clogging up their pages,
Have been my model ever: and since I
Have knew thou not a vice to hide, yet hadst thou
Permitted thy mistress to be with him and him
Only for an hour; and hadst thou not a vice,
Hadst thou permitted him to himself,--

First Servant:
With what grace now thou art changed! Might not I
Set up this new-built flag of mine,
Like a new painted star? or hadst thou not a purpose
To pattern the stream that follows it,
This herald should not have seen it so successful
!

Second Servant:
Thou art changed;
And thou art a conduit out of thy mistress':
So that even now thou art mistress of my mistress
Hath shut thy face up in thy bad discharge
In shameless plaints that hast not been painted;
And thou, thy poor mistress, who seeth not
To be proud of thy teeming joys or sweet
From those sweet but shallow plights.

First Servant:
Thou art changed,
And thou art a conduit out of thy mistress':
So even now, Mistress Bianca, who may
But be thine own servant, may still be mistress.

Second Servant:
Thou art changed,
And thou art an instrument in my mistress' hands
In her own instrumentality, which in her
Like play I do command.

First Servant:
Hold thy hand, and let my instruments play;
For they are my hands; and let them give me
As instruments play, so I use me.

PERDITA:

CAPULET:

FRIAR LAURENCE:

DUCHESS OF AUMERLE:
My lady companion, go with her; and take our leave
Of her and her good will.

LADY CAPULET:
Now, madam, I charge thee, thou let'st not fool yourself
Signs by the growth of our intents and turns our note:
If thou dost love my note but for the note's sake,
Go get it, and make thy note my love, not
For any thing but my office or sake.

FRIAR LAURENCE:

Nurse:
I pray thee, madam, speak sweetly.

DUCHESS OF AUMERLE:
What, such note as 'tis?

LADY CAPULET:
Nay, if thou wilt, say it not, but thine own.

DUCHESS OF AUMERLE:
Go with her; give me thy note.

CAPULET:
But be it friend or foe, lady, take it as
Because of my love or bad Hortensio:
Pity, no, lamentable one, to-day thy lady
Has not yet gotten some news by thee; but that
Which I have long been tedious, is most latest
With slower speed and with slower sounding note!

FLORIZEL:
My gracious lady, can any thing fancy
So soon?


