======== SAMPLE 1 ========
ASENS:
I do find it strange,
When one of them lies pliant, the rest starve.

LEONTES:
The food that we have is all that is necessary.

PAULINA:
Great Queen of Bolingbroke,
We do have a whip to our heads:
Crowns I have, which now they wear for feasting,
Have I no more but hands full of ill-divining
Hastings to make this foul division.

LEONTES:
Dispatch; the hoarded spoil no sooner
Is our own house but our own house,
And we'll disorder the oats and bedfellows
Without disorder. Lord, hisnian heart
With all the proffer'd necessaries
Ourself and our children were grind'd down,
Consuming the lean flesh of our children
And we come to eat thereof ourselves.

PAULINA:
O, holp am I, then, to make you speech,
Being reproof'd by you; that, to thy protestation,
I do deliver: therefore open the door,
And trothly will not out this of the house.
Lord, what a cruel mistress wast thou!
Dry and green is Shemsford's spirit! hungry and cold
Itinerary is it! Red herring! trothly, surely
She could have run!

LEONTES:
Are not my children so?
Good Paulina, be my wife again: hence, alas!
And for ever her gracious presence keep me company.

PAULINA:
Madam, the eldest of our mistress' children
Is already well; but the rest are in great strain
To help and counsel the daily joys of life;
But yet, alas! what joy comes to man,
To be a mum! To be a mum! To be a mum!
To be a mum! To be a mum!
The envious stony stoles of Isabella's tower
Are coats o' the winking o'er, to make a mess!
My wretched life comes to a happy end,
Like a Mediterranean star, till one day my wife
Persuades my son, Aumerle, to come ashore.
The envious streets of Pisa are full of wives;
And every lane leads back to London,
Where her mistresses have put on their lives.

LEONTES:
Sister, content thee with thy prize; I'll accompany
Thy mother to her wedding-day; for I am
More bound to be some three days gone.

PAULINA:
Good Paulina,--would all my envious days go
A little more, to them no good father should come but
One having a greater need of suitors.

SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
Mine honour and mine merit is great and
Nor is my wife, nor son, nor I; therefore
Let them want no suit at all but one big banquet.
But come, son Paulina; well attended by the rest.

PAULINA:
I am come to know your pleasure.

SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
What of that?

Son Paulina:
It is all part, we know, and we must be satisfied
Even with the fruit. For our youngest son,
whose father is a murderer, we accuse him
for having religious doubts; and then from thenceforth
We may reason, respecting him, that he must
Be so answer'd unto.

LEONTES:
I prithee, daughter, in honour, we may prove
Of these impossibilities it may well to be strict.

PAULINA:
Sir, something dunghit now, something ominous,
Something ominous, something ominous,
That you may forswear this black night, and be satisfied
Till then you forsook it. Farewell, farewell.

SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
I might be wrong, I might be right, sir, but
I must die to prove it.

LEONTES:
Do you hear, lad? and do you hear me call it true?

PAULINA:
Ay, do you hear, Hermione?

LEONTES:
Sir, you have been a thorn in the side of Cleomenes;
Have you not been bootless a tardy forward?

PAULINA:
No, sir; no boot, sir; rather, I tell thee,
I would that thy wife and Cleomenes had been 'twas bootless.

LEONTES:
Do you hear, lad? and do you hear him say so?

PAULINA:
Sir, I have often heard him say so.
