======== SAMPLE 1 ========
, I say unto him, you do offend:
If the governor be so ignorant as he,
I'll to the governor's for redress; but if he be so wise
To know his friends, I'll not trouble him:
My life would follow his eye,
The same assurance of which I had
No power to debase: for though my wits were weak,
My soul had not power to choose. O, he has begun
A rebellion of his own, which, i' the very air,
Bade me stand before him with willing ears
And swallow the advantage thereof, which I might,
If I did so, slay the common tongue,
Which he hath but lightly spoke, and hath with it
Loud smacking at home and from it, as it were,
Snatching language from me: and, by my life,
I would not have it here, had he my friend:
He could, and would not, for he is grown bold
Above all other sound reason, that speaks it freely,
And no one else speaks it: yea, man, the boldness of his
speak it freely; and the meaning that he speaks
Is the swift passage of language; yea, the meaning
So near to being bound that it is bound the
fellow's tongue, that all good things must needs
Speak it freely; so near, if not already,
To being bound the father of nothing speaks
A free language! for nothing can speak
A language, but the power to speak; for nothing
But to speak means to lose something within,
A father's labour; and therefore it follows
That nothing speaks, unless the thing it fears. Well, if
God leave me here in this poor city without water,
I dare not crave any such relief; indeed,
I dare not take but what hath good money for money:
I'll have no money for this, I warrant you, for it
Is in distress: though my life, and all my hopes,
Wouldst please him, I should not have you here.

HASTINGS:
I never fear'd it.

FLORIZEL:
If I came with you, you, my dearest father,
Were to know my mind, and you my enemy
To know my mind; but you, your son and a
substantial partier of the state, and a spy
Of the security of the state, would at your command,
Would soon confiscate all my company;
And yet you, your son, might yet steal my powder.

HASTINGS:
O, sir, you will have my love!

FLORIZEL:
True, my good father, and indeed such a worth of him,
That ever spake a word against the people;
But thou hast changed my mind: yea, my dear father!

HASTINGS:
Well, sir, let us away.

LORD FITZWATER:
I thank you, sir, for your good promise.

FLORIZEL:
That's indeed my true love, sir;
And I will to the Capitol; for there the people
Are going unto the Capitol, and there I will
Take unto myself my present liberty,
The wantonness of my conduct: therefore,
The oath I take, and all the measures that
I dare fail to execute, will make me to
All contrariety, as a person of no worth,
Being tied to nothing; and though I knew my charge
With very rare instance it cannot be denied,
That now it hath been verified; that every part,
The plot, the process, every blemish of mine offence
May admit, and yet no tear, for the poor innocent soul
Shall feel, if he or she received so foul
Execution, at their own hand. Thou lovest my grave,
And wouldst gripe my spirit here to the ground,
To make thee tremble upon my guiltless death,
Upon thy trespass, whose bitter ripening hath done
Even in my lodging a blip, a world tear,
To pluck out of my lips this proud air,
Which in our common air breathes here. Ah, my soul,
As thou stoutest says thou hast done so foul deed,
Whom hand I flung from thy bosom to the ground,
And thine eye did neglect: thou didst, when thou didst, tremble
Before the hand of the tyrant.
Thy heart fears more than I must speak, nor can I speak,
Unless thou hast spoken a word.

LORD FITZWATER:
My lord!

FLORIZEL:
Why, sir is't this done?

FLORIZEL:
Because that my father, ashamed
