======== SAMPLE 1 ========
.

LEONTES:
It will strike him that I will not be
The noble and virtuous that I profess.
Therefore stand you where you are, as you stood before;
For, I beseech you, never be too near.

CLEOMENES:
Peace be with thee, and, O, thy woes are greater:
Therefore stay to be calm and avoid
Thy way of offence: but be still, so
Thou sorrow's dauntless shame: look upon thy face,
And be amazed too, at thy shame.
O, who here have shame so stain'd thy face?
Thy father died for that was silver: now life
Looks blemished to say he was poor.

LEONTES:
Come, come, we never saw any poor man so ill--
there was none so ill in all the fame--
there is none so rich. I'll to my mother,
For she has but too much wealth to give me:
Go, you bumbling fiddler o'er, get you out,
And make your way as pleasant as I'll go,
To see a little fiddlestick, so I'll call it now
Where 'tis not so rotten and broken as it used to be,
And all the things that are there now.

CLEOMENES:
Peace, ho! no more weeping!

CLEOMENES:
We will not weep, nor stir, nor touch the ground;
Our hearts will be steel'd for ever.

CLEOMENES:
Come, come, we will not weep, nor stir, nor touch the ground;
Our hearts will be steel'd for ever,
So let them be, and let them be all steel'd;
For that they are so are to be pitied
The instant they touch the ground; the fiddlesticks
For that they shall be so, shall be pitied
Until so they be pitied. And here comes a buzz:
Here are you the third time we have buzzed. You are a wretch,
And were we otherwise, you would never buzz
A mile hence. Come on, follow us, and you will find
A little buzz here or there; and so fast as a dog
Will take an hour or two to come to you.
What, will you not do the same? and so will I;
And here comes the fourth time. Do you mean there's a buzz?

CLEOMENES:
'Pet!' quoth he, quoth I; and then he goes away,
To buy this fiddlestick. What, 'ping,' quoth I,
I, who say I love him so, must not call
But 'ping'? 'Prithee!' quoth he, quoth I,
I, who say I love my dear lord: 'pet!' quoth he, quoth I,
I, who say I love dear lord:'pet!'
As I sit by this fickleness, quailing my heart,
I say 'prithee!' and then he goes away,
To buy a fiddlestick.

LADY ANNE:
I say, I say, he says he did buy a fiddlestick.

CLEOMENES:
'Prithee!' quoth he, quoth I,
I, who say I say I mean 'ping:' 'pet!' quoth he, quoth I) shall go to bed
At which time the air will let out my soul,
And I shall no more say it, then I am dead.
But, I say,'prithee!' quoth he, quoth I, she shall say it,
And she shall say more:'she shall put it on! she shall say it
And she shall go to bed with it!' O, she is dead.

LADY ANNE:
Away with it!

CLEOMENES:
But 'Prithee!'

YORK:
'Prithee!' quoth he, quoth I, there should be five pence
Upon him whose head I struck up: then, I say,
There should be five hundred crowns upon him whose head
I struck up.

CLEOMENES:
He, what is your will?

LADY ANNE:
'Prithee!' quoth he, quoth I, there shall be peace: then, I say,
There shall be peace; then, I say, 'prithee!' quoth he,
She shall say it:
She shall say 'prithee!' quoth he, she shall go to bed
At which time the air shall let out her soul,
And I shall no more say it
